Feat/add rdf vocab guidelines (#10)
inrupt/public-documentation: coding-conventions/rdf-vocabulary-guidelines.md

# RDF Vocabulary Guidelines

## Overview
The ultimate goal of this documentation is to provide a professional, cohesive
set of general guidelines for anyone wishing to create, extend or maintain RDF
vocabularies. It borrows extensively from existing (and continually evolving)
research in this space, but aims to provide a one-stop-shop for anyone looking
for current industry best practices in relation to RDF vocabulary design.

## The Inrupt Artifact Generator

Although multiple attempts have been made at producing RDF vocabulary
guidelines (and we link to a number of examples below), a fundamental problem is
that these guidelines are generally written in academic papers, or described in
prose, and therefore not machine-readable or enforceable.
 
One nice consequence of Inrupt having an [Artifact Generator]() is that if a
vocabulary is explicitly declared as being of a specific type, then our
generator can enforce a number of these guidelines automatically (e.g. all
Classes and Properties must provide `rdfs:label` and `rdfs:comment` values, in
at least English) before generating source-code artifacts that contain

> programming-language constants for the terms contained in that vocabulary.

Author: Yeah, that's basically it, although (currently) simpler than "meta-programming", in that it literally just generates a single Class per vocabulary (i.e. FOAF would result in a Java class declared as `public class FOAF implements Vocab { ...}` (where `Vocab` is just a very simple interface providing access to meta-data for the vocab itself (e.g. the vocab's preferred prefix or namespace URI (if the vocab declares those things in it's Turtle)). Inside that class are simply one constant for each term in the vocabulary. And that's it - no 'methods' or anything to do sophisticated things like validation against SHACL or ShEx (as I don't like the idea of generating hard-coded representations of those things (as it's very brittle), instead preferring to do those things dynamically at run-time instead).
On the suggested changes, I don't think we need to add the reference to OWL, so I'd just remove that (but I don't know if I can 'edit' your suggestion to change just that part of it (or to add an 's' to the end of 'contains')

> programming-language constants for the terms contained in that vocabulary.

Author: Actually, I just accepted this suggestion, and edited it locally - I'll push back up after reviewing more of these comments. Cheers!

> programming-language constants for the terms contained in that vocabulary.

Reviewer: It seems I can edit my suggestion, but I don't think you can.

that prefix.cc is not actively curated, and that anyone is free to add prefixes
as they see fit. So if your preferred prefix is already registered, but on
investigation you determine that the existing vocbaulary is no longer active or
is not in wide use, and that existing vocabulary wouldn't conflict conceptually
with your vocabulary, then feel free to use that prefix (prefixes are only a
convenient syntactic sugar available in some RDF serializations, and anyone
using your vocabulary is completely free to apply whatever prefix they wish
themselves, allowing them to avoid prefix name clashes).

- Consider registering your prefix at [prefix.cc](http://prefix.cc/) once you
think your vocabulary's chosen namespace URI will remain stable.

#### Recommended prefixes

- Because anyone can define whatever prefix they want when re-using vocabularies
(e.g. the Dublin Core Terms vocabulary is often used with the prefix `dc:`, or 
`dct:`, or `dcterms:` (the Turtle serialization of the vocabulary itself uses
`dcterms:`, so we do too!)), we provide here the prefixes that we at Inrupt
use for common vocabularies, just to try and keep our prefix usage consistent
across all our RDF:

> ```

Author: Funny - I was literally just thinking if GitHub would support that, but I'll add it regardless: 700df2f

prefix dcterms:  <http://purl.org/dc/terms/>
prefix schema:   <http://schema.org/>

> prefix xsd:      <http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#>

Author: Yeah, my intent here wasn't to try and list **_all_** the vocabs and prefixes we use, but just to point out what prefix we use for vocabs that might be open to interpretation, for example DCTERMS (perhaps the most 'open' of them all!), but also Schema.org (i.e.some might be tempted to have `schemaorg` or something), and in fact we use `solid:` and not `solidterms:` as you have here (so I'll add that one), and I'd prefer `shacl:` instead of just `sh:`, so I'll add that too: 06824ea

 [Appendix B: URI namespaces](https://www.w3.org/TR/swbp-vocab-pub/#naming).
  - Simple guidance:
     - use a hash namespace if you consider your vocabulary 'small' (perhaps
      just a few dozen terms), and relatively self-contained.
     - use a slash namespace if think your vocabulary has potential to grow
      substantially, or might be broken up into sub-vocabularies.
  - Important to note: a hash namespace means the entire vocab will be retrieved
  in one GET request, whereas a slash namespace allows each individual term to
  be dereferencable individually (e.g. https://schema.org/Person)
  - Generally speaking, a slash namespace is more future-proof, as new levels of
  hierarchy can be added later, whereas a hash namespace can only have a single
  (root) level of hierarchy.  
  
- Consider using a persistent URI (to allow the links and references defined in
your vocabulary to outlive your current organisation, or personally owned
domain):
  - PURL (but it seems the Internet Archive are no longer supported it (i.e.
   they were not responding to update requests in 2019)).
  - The [w3id.org](https://w3id.org/) project (but as a GitHub repo, can it

>    continue to scale indefinitely...?!)

Author: Accepted, but then I tweaked the wording a wee bit: b1d1cfa

- Do not include a version number in the namespace URI:
```
prefix foaf: <http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/>

> ```

Author: Yep, done: b1d1cfa

 
- Open question on whether to include year (and possibly month) (as a simple
form of versioning) in the namespace URI.
  - It's fairly common, especially in W3C vocabularys, e.g.
```
prefix rdf: <http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#>
prefix rdfs: <http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#> 
```
  - ...but my personal preference is to **_not_** include any attempt at 
  explicit versioning in the URI (instead use explicit versioning meta-data

>   within the vocabulary itself).

Author: So I'm not sure about this comment - the current text says **_do not_** put version info into the namespace URI, so I think we're in agreement here, but maybe I'm missing some other point here...?

>   within the vocabulary itself).

Reviewer: Those points are stated as open questions.
I'm trying to convey that this question about whether to include any form of versioning in the URI has been asked and answered some time ago. It is a bad idea and the reasons for not including any explicit versioning in the URI go beyond personal preference. Or at least, that's where I'm at in terms of apprehending the subject.
So I think we can be quite assertive on this point and help avoid problems for anyone wondering about it in the future.
Also, I think there is value in including links to historical conversations/justifications for not doing so (the old authoritative argument/learn from experience).

There is in my previous comment this addition on why not to use versioning in the URI:
- The impracticalities of migrating namespaces in a global, distributed and decentralised environment. See the Term-centric Semantic Web Vocabulary Annotations W3C editor draft for [an historical note on the subject](https://www.w3.org/2003/06/sw-vocab-status/note#history).

Could probably also add the quote from [FOAF extension and evolution](http://xmlns.com/foaf/spec/#sec-evolution):
- It long ago became impractical to update the namespace URI without causing huge disruption to both producers and consumers of FOAF data. We are left with the digits "0.1" in our URI. This stands as a warning to all those who might embed metadata in their vocabulary identifiers.

This comment is also an attempt to abstract away from the question. I'm not sure the wording or justification is sufficient, but I like the idea of linking human and machine languages' evolution and I think there is value in it.

>   within the vocabulary itself).

Reviewer: As a side note, this conversation touches on many subjects that deserve their own section and are not vocabulary or namespace specific: opaque identifiers; machine readable languages; versioning; vanity URIs; "#" vs "/"...

>   within the vocabulary itself).

Author: Ah Ok - I understand better now. I strengthened the wording here: cd15092. I was trying to find that well known FOAF "we're stuck" quote, so thanks for that (I've added that to the doc now too).

   
## Providing meta-data for your vocabulary

It's very important that you describe your vocabulary, explaining its intent
and providing guidance for potential users of your vocabulary.

### Explicitly say your vocabulary is a vocabulary!

- Firstly, explicitly define your vocabulary **_as_** a vocabulary. Simply use
the `Ontology` property from the [OWL](http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#)
vocabulary, e.g.
```
myvocab: a owl:Ontology .
```

- Optionally, also type your vocabulary as an Artifact Generator-aware
vocabulary to allow automatic machine enforcement of many of these guidelines, 
e.g.
```
# NOTE: this Artifact Generator-aware vocabulary is subject to change, so we
# don't provide the full namespace URI at the moment!
myvocab a artifact-generator:Ontology .
``` 

### Describe the vocabulary

- Provide basic descriptions of your vocabulary using `dcterms:title` and
`dcterms:description`, and use explicit language tags to denote the language, e.g.
```
myvocab: a owl:Ontology ;
  dcterms:title "My guidelines vocab"@en ;

>   dcterms:title "Mon vocabulaire de lignes directrices"@fr ;

Author: Pesky Google translate. Updated: bebfb3c

  dcterms:description "A longer description of my guidelines vocab"@en ;

>   dcterms:description "Une description plus longue de mon vocabulaire de lignes directrices"@fr .

Author: Updated: bebfb3c

```

> 

Author: Yeah, the artifact generator does already support `rdfs:seeAlso`, and also `rdfs:isDefinedBy` (and the constant objects that it generates also support accessing this meta-data for the individual vocabulary terms that provide them), but I'll add them both to the guidelines too.

### Provide preferred prefix and namespace hints

- Use the [VANN](http://purl.org/vocab/vann/) properties 
`preferredNamespacePrefix` and `preferredNamespaceUri` to describe your
recommended prefix (remember this is just a suggestion - users of your
vocabulary can choose whatever prefix they like, including none at all!), and

> your namespace URI. 

Author: Done (and tweaked a bit further): 504e499

### Explicitly state the vocabulary license

- Creative Commons seems nice, in that it has some native RDF support, see: 
[Describing Copyright in RDF](https://creativecommons.org/ns#), but I don't know
anything about it beyond this page!

- What license predicate to use?
  - Dublin Core Terms: `http://purl.org/dc/terms/license`
  - Creative Commons: `http://creativecommons.org/ns#license`
  - Both?

- What license value to use?
  - `http://purl.org/NET/rdflicense/MIT1.0.ttl`
  - `http://www.opendatacommons.org/licenses/pddl/`
  - `https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT`
  - `https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/`
  
- What other licensing properties should we use?  
  - `http://creativecommons.org/ns#attributionURL` ?

### Versioning

- Use the `owl:versionInfo` property to provide basic vocabulary version
information.
  - This is **_not_** intended to follow the [SemVer](https://semver.org/)
  convention common elsewhere.
  - Currently, we just use a simple `0.x` format until we think a vocabulary is
  ready to be considered somewhat 'finished', at which point we would promote

>   the version to `1.0`, and continue to evolve from there.

Reviewer: I've seen `owl:versionInfo` being used to point at a GitHub request in the W3C CSV on the Web specification [CSVW vocabulary](https://github.com/w3c/csvw/blob/0f3a1fde0b8851692150f1862f56e0eead111560/ns/csvw.ttl#L50). I quite like the idea of linking every new version to some rich source of information in a repository a pull request, a changelog... I'm not sure a version number has a ton of value in the context of an ontology.
Also having rich data accessible from version info ties to the idea of versioning at the term level by adding metadata to evolve the vocabulary.
Eventually, given the description of `owl:versionInfo`: "The annotation property that provides version information for an ontology or another OWL construct.", I believe we could have a blank node as target of a versionInfo, something like:
```turtle
myvocab:
    a owl:Ontology ;
    rdfs:isDefinedBy myvocab: ;
    owl:versionInfo [
            dc:date "2017-06-06"^^xsd:date ;
            rdfs:seeAlso <https://github.com/me/my-vocab/pull/1> ;
            rdfs:isDefinedBy <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/me/my-vocab/randomblob372836/myvocab.ttl> ;
        ] ;
    owl:versionInfo [
            dc:date "2019-10-26"^^xsd:date ;
            rdfs:seeAlso <https://github.com/me/my-vocab/pull/2> ;
            rdfs:isDefinedBy <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/me/my-vocab/randomblob232829/myvocab.ttl> ;
        ] ;
    owl:versionInfo [
            dc:date "2020-01-02"^^xsd:date ;
            rdfs:seeAlso <https://github.com/me/my-vocab/pull/2> ;
            rdfs:isDefinedBy <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/me/my-vocab/randomblob989929/myvocab.ttl> ;
        ] .
```
The goal being to evolve the ontology by adding to it, not removing.

Reviewer: Note that I think a vocabulary is `rdfs:isDefinedBy` itself.
As much as the classes and properties it defines are defined by it.

Author: Very nice! Yeah, I never thought about the object of `owl:versionInfo` being a reference (as opposed to just a crappy string). That seems like a really great idea to me. (The obvious trade-off (as always with a reference instead of a value) being between the added power, flexibility and expressivity this brings versus the added complexity).
I also really like your extension to the example from CSVW too, i.e. adding the extra meta-data beyond just a direct link to a GitHub commit). The only concern I'd have about your extension is the use of the dreaded blank node, and therefore not being able to reference the individual `owl:versionInfo` instances in your example above).
Ideally I think we could leverage PROV-O to properly model the vocab's evolution over time (i.e. it's provenance), but again that raises yet more 'added complexity' tradeoffs (but personally I'd err on the side of greater flexibility here, and PROV-O is something I really think we need to start using, and this seems like a good safe place to begin introducing it (e.g. I particularly like the idea of using PROV-O in relation to recording user consent, but that's a much bigger area, and less 'safe' (i.e. more damaging if we get it wrong) than 'just' modelling vocab versioning)).
I'll definitely add a bigger section on vocab versioning to the document.

  
### Describe who created this vocabulary

- Provide a reference to who (i.e. the organisation, or person) created this
vocabulary using the `dc:creator` property. This property is intended to have a
URI as it's value, and so if you (or your organisation) has a WebID, then that
would be the perfect value for this property. If you don't have a meaningful
URI to provide here, a simple textual string is also fine.

> 

Reviewer: Consider giving credit to contributors as well using the `dcterms:contributor` property.

Author: Yep, added this too!

Reviewer: I just remembered something, I think just before we recommend using `dc:creator`.
However, the "[DCMI gently encourages use of the /terms/ namespace](https://www.dublincore.org/specifications/dublin-core/dcmi-terms/#section-1)".
Maybe we should recommend `dcterms:creator`.

Reviewer 2: 👍  on using the DC Terms vocabulary

Author: Yep - the text was clear (i.e. use `dcterms:`), but a couple of examples still used `dc:`: fixed here: 0f2729c.

vocabulary each time the vocabulary is modified.

- Use `dcterms:issued` for individual terms in your vocabulary if they were
issued after the official issue date of the vocabulary itself.

- Update `dcterms:modified` (with the value typed as `xsd:date`) for each
vocabulary term each time you update any meta-data for that term.

```
myvocab: a owl:Ontology ;
  :
  dcterms:issued "2010-01-01"^^xsd:date ; 
  dcterms:modified "2015-01-01"^^xsd:date . 

myvocab:prop1 a rdf:Property ;
  :
  rdfs:comment "My first property - issued in original vocabulary."@en ;
  dcterms:modified "2015-01-01"^^xsd:date . 

myvocab:prop2 a rdf:Property ;
  :
  rdfs:comment "My new property - issued after the original vocabulary."@en ;
  dcterms:issued "2020-10-02"^^xsd:date . 
``` 

### Domain and range

- In general the concepts of `domain` and `range` can be very helpful in
communicating the intent of vocabulary properties (see 
[explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9065709/difference-between-domain-and-range-in-rdf-schema)
(better explanation?)). However, the standard RDF properties of `rdfs:domain`
and `rdfs:range` have very rigid semantics, meaning they can cause problems when

> a vocabulary using them is used with higher-level RDF tooling.

Reviewer: I would say refrain from using `rdfs:domain` and `rdfs:range` unless you intend to adopt the usage base classification pattern in your ontology and that you specialise your predicates to specific classes.
The trick with RDF is that anyone can say anything about anything and if you specify a domain for your predicate, then every resource that is subject of that predicate will be inferred to be of the class specified, not matter if it makes sense or not.
Domain and range should not be confused as constraints, on the contrary, they are used to infer statements about what uses or is a target of a specific predicate. This is a quite counter-intuitive aspect of RDF. See the RDF specification for a [logical explanation of the domain and range inference](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_properties). You can also read about [inference on the W3C semantic web page dedicated to it](https://www.w3.org/standards/semanticweb/inference).

Author: Yep, absolutely, which is exactly why the next bullet point advises **_against_** using them, and using Schema.org's much looser `schema:domainIncludes`, etc. instead!
I've tweaked it though to make that 2nd bullet-point a sub-bullet-point of this one though (to make it clearer that it's a follow-on point, as opposed to a separate point), and also included the better explanation links (although they aren't that great either, i.e. one is extremely formal, i.e. written in typical W3C spec-speak, and the friendlier one is still a bit too generic, but they're useful regardless...): 69d2a7d

Reviewer: Another thing we might consider is using/recommending `dcam:domainIncludes` and `dcam:rangeIncludes` instead of the schema.org counterpart. I think the schema.org predicates predate those two, but the dcam vocabulary is much leaner (4 terms vs 841 Types, 1369 Properties, and 352 Enumeration values) and its purpose seems more dedicated to vocabulary description while Schema.org is a hierarchy of types.

# RDF Vocabulary Guidelines

## Overview
The goal of this documentation is to suggest a cohesive
set of rules for anyone wishing to create, extend and/or maintain RDF
vocabularies. It borrows extensively from existing (and continually evolving)
research in this space, but aims to provide a one-stop-shop for anyone looking
for current industry best practices in relation to RDF vocabulary design.

## The Inrupt Artifact Generator

Although multiple attempts have been made at producing RDF vocabulary
guidelines (see links in the [Existing research / guidelines section](#existing-research--guidelines) below), a fundamental problem is
that these guidelines are generally written in academic papers, or described in
prose, and are therefore not machine-readable and automatically enforceable.
 

> One nice consequence of Inrupt having an [Artifact Generator]() is that if a

Reviewer 3: there is a missing link here

Author: Yeah, we know about that https://github.com/calummackervoy - we haven't open-sourced that generator project yet (and we don't yet have a proposed date to do so, but we definitely do intend to open-source it at some stage). So there's little point in providing a link to what is a private repo right now.
It is a nice tool for us to have **_internally_** though, and the point about having a programmatic means of automatically enforcing some of the guidelines described in this document is still valid too, hence it being mentioned here. And it is kinda the very first thing anyone does after they define a new vocab (or even just add a term to an existing vocab) - i.e. they hand-write constants in their programming language(s) of choice (i.e. Java, JavaScript, C#, Rust, Python, whatever...) - so even ust alluding to the fact that Inrupt has a tool to auto-generate those programming languages constants is useful to know (e.g. if enough people were to express an interest in getting their hands on that tool, it might accelerate it being open-sourced :) !).
But, having said all that here - I really should just explain in the document itself, so I did: 1d0edd6

Reviewer 3: Ah sorry you just told me that on another issue! Thanks

  opposed to uppercase, or the older `@BASE`, `@PREFIX` syntax (see the NOTE in
  [Turtle 1.1 Spec IRIs Note](https://www.w3.org/TR/turtle/#sec-iri))).
  
  - Justification:
    - We consider RDF 1.1 Turtle parsers to be widely deployed now, so choosing
    lowercase and the non-@-prefixed syntax shouldn't cause any problems.
    - It allows easier cut-and-paste into SPARQL queries. 
    - Readability (i.e., lowercase tends to 'scream' less).
    - Consistency (i.e., just pick one, and stick with it - we've chosen
      lowercase).

- Use a short prefix for your vocabulary, but don't get caught up in
trying to make the prefix **_too_** short. For example:
    ```turtle
    prefix my-vocab: <http://myCompany.com/ns/example/myVocab#>
    
    # Long prefixes are fine too if justified
    prefix fibo-loan-loan-mod: <https://spec.edmcouncil.org/fibo/ontology/LOAN/Loans/MetadataLOANLoans/>
    ```

- If your prefix is made up of multiple words or acronyms (such as the
`fibo-loan-loan-mod` example above), use hypens and not underscores. There is no
particular reason for this preference (i.e., either would be fine), it's just to

> pick one to maintain consistency across all of our vocabs.

Reviewer 4: I would strongly suggest the opposite, i.e. use underscores, not hyphens. The reason is that in quite a few programming languages, hyphens are not allowed in variables, method names, attributes or the like. It is really useful to map prefixes to methods in RDF frameworks, and using hyphens adds complexity to this process. I've implemented this a couple of times, it is a pain, so if there is no particular reason for the preference, it is very good reason to do the opposite.

Author: Interesting. The Artifact Generator has always generated to multiple programming languages, and indeed hypens are problematic, but then so are other things too (like reserved keywords), which any generator has to transform for the target language anyway, and so **_also_** transforming hypens to underscores if needed is just another example of that.
But yeah, I totally agree that reducing the number of transformations if possible is definitely better, so I'd be happy to make this change.
My thinking was that existing RDF vocabs that I've stumbled across (and of course, not many use underscores or hypens) do tend to use hypens (like the FIBO example I give above), and FHIR (in [this Turtle file](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/fhir.ttl)) does define `@prefix fhir-vs: <http://hl7.org/fhir/ValueSet/> .`, but then never seems to use that prefix(!), and instead seems to use a dot notation for terms, e.g.,:
```turtle
fhir:StructureMap.group.rule.rule.source.logMessage
        a             owl:ObjectProperty ;
        rdfs:comment  "A FHIRPath expression which specifies a message to put in the transform log when content matching the source rule is found." ;
        rdfs:domain   fhir:StructureMapGroupComponent.StructureMapGroupRuleComponentRule.StructureMapGroupRuleSourceComponent ;
        rdfs:label    "StructureMap.group.rule.rule.source.logMessage" ;
        rdfs:range    fhir:string ;
        dc:title      "Message to put in log if source exists (FHIRPath)" .
```
Let's leave this comment unresolved for now to see if any of the other experienced RDF people have an opinion (but I'm certainly happy to switch the prefix recommendation to underscores).

Author: Ok, so I've now switched all instances in the existing Inrupt vocabs (i.e., in `https://github.com/inrupt/solid-common-vocab-rdf`) to use underscores instead of hyphens, and so I've also updated the guidance here to recommend doing the same. So resolving this comment (thanks for the input @kjetilk :) !).

Reviewer 4: Yay! :+1:

as they see fit. If your preferred prefix is already registered on prefix.cc but on
investigation, you determine that the existing vocabulary is no longer active or
is not in wide use, and that the existing vocabulary wouldn't conflict conceptually
with your vocabulary, then feel free to use that prefix. Prefixes are only a
convenient syntactic sugar available in some RDF serializations, and anyone
using your vocabulary is completely free to apply whatever prefix they wish
themselves, allowing them to avoid prefix name clashes.

- Consider registering your prefix at [prefix.cc](http://prefix.cc/) once you
think your vocabulary's chosen namespace URI will remain stable.

#### Recommended prefixes for common RDF vocabularies

- Use preferred namespace prefixes. 
    - Justification: 
      - Consistency; Readability.

Note: Anyone can define whatever prefix they want when using vocabularies, so
for instance the Dublin Core Terms vocabulary is often used with different
prefixes, such as `dc:`, or `dct:`, or `dcterms:`, which can be confusing. Since
the [Turtle serialization of the vocabulary](https://www.dublincore.org/specifications/dublin-core/dcmi-terms/dublin_core_terms.ttl)

> itself uses `dcterms:`, so do we!

Reviewer 4: OK, I tend to prefer the shorter one for those frequently used. I have been using `dc` for `<http://purl.org/dc/terms/>`, where there is potential for confusion, I have tended to settle for `dct` since I tend to type it frequently both when writing RDF and when programming, and `dcterms` doesn't seem to add value to me.

I do recognize that `dcterms` is frequently used though.

Author: Yep - I hear you, and I don't mind really, as it really is subjective and up to 'personal choice'. But that's why I refer to the 'authority' of the Turtle serialization from Dublin Core themselves - i.e., their own Turtle uses `dcterms:`, so who am I (or you!) to 'argue' with that... :) !
But I'm certainly happy to change if others agree that that argument is too weak.

Reviewer 4: Yeah, I agree, there aren't any very strong arguments either way here, indeed, mostly "personal choice". FWIW, `dct` is now above `dcterms` on prefix.cc's popular list: https://prefix.cc/popular/all :-)

Now, given that it is mostly a "personal choice" perhaps it doesn't make sense to encode a guideline about it? 

I think it is clearly makes sense to have a guideline to not use the old DC vocab, but I'm not sure it would be worth that much to have a guideline on the prefix to use there.

Author: Yep - I think we're in broad agreement.
I hear you on `prefix.cc`, but I'd personally rank '**_Dublin Core themselves_**' (i.e., they use `dcterms:`) over the randomness of the rankings on `prefix.cc` (which is subjective, I know).
As for the question "does it make sense to encode a guideline about it?" - remember that these are just Inrupt's guidelines (i.e., we're just sharing 'what we do'), so I think it does make sense for us, as a commercial company, to try to be consistent in the prefixes we apply as a company (i.e., so we appear to 'speak with one voice').
I just think it's more professional, and Inrupt doesn't appear to be all over the place.

    "telephone_number", or "TelephoneNumber", etc.
    
  - Long-form descriptions can be thought of as the UI tooltip value that might
    be displayed when a user hovers over that UIs text entry field on a website
    form asking the user to provide a value for that property.

    For example, if a form asks for the user's telephone number, then the long-
    form description might be something like, "The telephone number at which you
    can be contacted (can be your mobile number, or a landline number, or a work
    phone number, etc.).".

  Note: another, different, convention is that short-form descriptions can be
  thought of as placeholder replacements for that property in normal prose
  sentences. For example, the value from the above example might be "telephone
  number", so that it 'fits' more naturally within prose sentences like,
  "This property is your telephone number for use when...".
  But currently, Inrupt prescribes the UI-Form heuristic for vocabulary term
  descriptions.

- Full stops.
  - As a general rule, we recommend that short-form descriptive strings (e.g., 
    `rdfs:label`) don't end in full stops.

>   - But longer descriptive strings (e.g., `rdfs:comment`, `dcterms:description`,

Reviewer 5: Using consistent phrasing
```suggestion
  - But long-form descriptive strings (e.g., `rdfs:comment`, `dcterms:description`,
```

  
    ```turtle
    pet:PetRock a rdfs:Class ;
      rdfs:label "Pet Rock"@en ;
      rdfs:label "Peataí Rock"@ga ;
      rdfs:label "Pierre de compagnie (Pet Rock)"@fr ;
      rdfs:comment "Pet Rock is a collectible toy made in 1975 by advertising executive Gary Dahl."@en ;
      rdfs:comment "Is bréagán inbhailithe é Pet Rock a rinne an feidhmeannach fógraíochta Gary Dahl i 1975."@ga ;
      rdfs:comment "Pet Rock est un jouet de collection fabriqué en 1975 par le directeur de la publicité Gary Dahl."@fr .
    ```

- Explicitly provided language tags on textual information can be used by
  libraries to automatically provide internationalized UI elements, or error
  messages, or any human-readable information. For example, the Inrupt
  Artifact Generator can generate source-code from RDF vocabs that provides
  easy and direct programmatic access to these translations, such as this
  example that displays the Spanish comment associated with the 'shininess'
  property defined in Inrupt's example Pet Rock vocabulary:
  
    ```javascript
    import { PET_ROCK } from "@inrupt/generated-vocab-pet-rock";
    
    console.log(PET_ROCK.shininess.asLanguage("es").comment);
    ```

> 

Reviewer 5: Adding in the links to language tags
```suggestion
 Here are links to some websites that define commonly used language tags.

An RFC on how language tags work: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/bcp/bcp47.txt 

A more readable Wikipedia page:  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IETF_language_tag 
```

### Prefixes

- Use the lowercase SPARQL syntax for `prefix` and `base` (if you use `base` at
  all, as our guidance is to avoid it **_for vocabularies_**). See the NOTE in
  [Turtle 1.1 Spec IRIs Note](https://www.w3.org/TR/turtle/#sec-iri) for more
  information).
  
  - Justification:
    - We consider RDF 1.1 Turtle parsers to be widely deployed now, so choosing
    lowercase and the non-@-prefixed syntax shouldn't cause any problems.

>     - It allows easier cut-and-paste into SPARQL queries. 

Reviewer 5: Stronger phrasing 
```suggestion
    - Only prefix is allowed in SPARQL queries. 
```

    - Readability (i.e., lowercase tends to 'scream' less!).
    - Consistency (i.e., just pick one, and stick with it - Inrupt has chosen
      lowercase).

- Use a short prefix for your vocabulary, but don't get caught up in
  trying to make the prefix **_too_** short. For example:

    ```turtle
    prefix my_vocab: <http://myCompany.com/ns/example/myVocab/>
    
    # Long prefixes are fine too, if justified...
    prefix fibo-loan-loan-mod: <https://spec.edmcouncil.org/fibo/ontology/LOAN/Loans/MetadataLOANLoans/>
    

>     # ...but we recommend using underscores instead of hyphens (see below).

Reviewer 5: Stronger phrasing
```suggestion
    # ...but we have chosen to use underscores instead of hyphens (see below).
```

    prefix inrupt_ess_service_audit: <https://inrupt.com/vocab/ess/service/audit/>
    ```

- If you feel your prefix needs multiple words or acronyms (such as the example
  `inrupt_ess_service_audit` above), use underscores and not hyphens to separate

>   the words.

Reviewer 5: Don't think we need the paragraph below

Author: Yeah, I agree it's not really needed. But your 'Suggestion' here isn't removing that paragraph (so I can't just 'Commit' this suggestion, as it's not changing anything!), but I do think it does offer a little bit of value (i.e., just emphasizing that it's not _really_ that important, consistency is **_far more_** important), but sure, I'd be fine with removing the paragraph too.

>   There's no particularly strong justification for this preference (i.e., either

Reviewer 5: Don't think we need this paragraph

    - Justification: 
      - Consistency; Readability.

Note: Anyone can define whatever prefix they want when using vocabularies, so
for instance the Dublin Core Terms vocabulary is often used with different
prefixes, such as `dc:`, or `dct:`, or `dcterms:`, which can be confusing. Since
the [Turtle serialization of the vocabulary](https://www.dublincore.org/specifications/dublin-core/dcmi-terms/dublin_core_terms.ttl)
itself uses the prefix `dcterms:`, so do we at Inrupt!

We also recommend using the common prefixes listed by the
[W3C's RDFa Core Initial Context](https://www.w3.org/2011/rdfa-context/rdfa-1.1).

Below we list prefixes that we use at Inrupt across all our RDF for
vocabularies, but whose prefix might not be immediately obvious, or is not
listed in the RDFa Core Initial Context above. (If you're unsure of a prefix
to use, try and look for existing usage of that vocabulary in our RDF, or just
ask at info@inrupt.com):

```turtle
# Many RDF examples in the wild use `dc:` or `dct:` instead of `dcterms:` (and
# indeed the RDFa Core Initial Context lists both `dc:` and `dcterms:`), but
# we have chosen to consistently use `dcterms:`, as this is the prefix the

> # Dublin Core themselves use in there Turtle serialization.

Reviewer 5: Small typo
```suggestion
# Dublin Core themselves use in their Turtle serialization.
```
